README.md, before:

# [enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) || [react-testing-library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library)

The repository is designed to compare the idiosyncrasies of most ubiquitous React unit-testing libraries.

## Concepts

It's likely to be confusing for the first time to understand to what extent the libraries differ from each other. To grasp the main concepts, it's strongly advised to process some of the [resources](#Resources), although learning through practice is more effective, as well as can absolutely shorten the time. For those who would like to dive right in, see the quotes below.

> Rather than tests focusing on the implementation (Enzyme), tests are more focused on user behavior (react-testing-library). [(*David Boyne, Medium - My experience moving from Enzyme to react-testing-library*)](https://medium.com/@boyney123/my-experience-moving-from-enzyme-to-react-testing-library-5ac65d992ce)

> Enzyme allows you to access the internal workings of your components. You can read and set the state, and you can mock children to make tests run faster. On the other hand, react-testing-library doesn't give you any access to the implementation details. It renders the components and provides utility methods to interact with them. The idea is that you should communicate with your application in the same way a user would. So rather than set the state of a component you reproduce the actions a user would do to reach that state. [(*@Giorgio Polvara - Gpx, StackOverflow - Difference between enzyme, ReactTestUtils and react-testing-library*)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/54152893/9599137)

> The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more confidence they can give you. [(*Kent C. Dodds, Twitter*)](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

## Setup

Check out the [configs](./configs) folder and [jest.config.js](./jest.config.js). It's worthwhile to mention that `react-testing-library` can be used out of the box, thereby a separate configuration file wouldn't be required at all. It's presented there to set up [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom) - in case you're interested in various Jest matches other than the default ones.

## Idiosyncrasies

### [Find elements](./src/find-elements/find-elements.js)

- If the implementation changes(e.g. the order of the components), Enzyme will fail, whilst RTL won't due to not accessing the components by their position.
- Enzyme doesn't expose various ways to find particular elements as opposed to what RTL offers.

## Resources

- [David Boyne, Medium - My experience moving from Enzyme to react-testing-library](https://medium.com/@boyney123/my-experience-moving-from-enzyme-to-react-testing-library-5ac65d992ce)
- [@Black, StackOverflow - Difference between enzyme, ReactTestUtils and react-testing-library](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54152562/difference-between-enzyme-reacttestutils-and-react-testing-library)
- [LevelUpTuts, YouTube - What Is React Testing Library?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKOwJUM4_RM)
- [Kent C. Dodds, YouTube - Test Driven Development with react-testing-library](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCR3JAR7CHE)
- [Leigh Halliday, YouTube - Testing React](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8fumNHsC-3NaPNxh2bous6bBDWwJ4r1-)

Commit message:

Remove superfluous dependencies, prepare fire-events tests

README.md, after:

# [enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) || [react-testing-library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library)

The repository is designed to compare the idiosyncrasies of most ubiquitous React unit-testing libraries.

## Concepts

It's likely to be confusing for the first time to understand to what extent the libraries differ from each other. To grasp the main concepts, it's strongly advised to process some of the [resources](#Resources), although learning through practice is more effective, as well as can absolutely shorten the time. For those who would like to dive right in, see the quotes below.

> Rather than tests focusing on the implementation (Enzyme), tests are more focused on user behavior (react-testing-library). [(*David Boyne, Medium - My experience moving from Enzyme to react-testing-library*)](https://medium.com/@boyney123/my-experience-moving-from-enzyme-to-react-testing-library-5ac65d992ce)

> Enzyme allows you to access the internal workings of your components. You can read and set the state, and you can mock children to make tests run faster. On the other hand, react-testing-library doesn't give you any access to the implementation details. It renders the components and provides utility methods to interact with them. The idea is that you should communicate with your application in the same way a user would. So rather than set the state of a component you reproduce the actions a user would do to reach that state. [(*@Giorgio Polvara - Gpx, StackOverflow - Difference between enzyme, ReactTestUtils and react-testing-library*)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/54152893/9599137)

> The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more confidence they can give you. [(*Kent C. Dodds, Twitter*)](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

## Setup

Check out the [configs](./configs) folder and [jest.config.js](./jest.config.js). It's worthwhile to mention that `react-testing-library` can be used out of the box, thereby a separate configuration file wouldn't be required at all. It's presented there to set up [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom) - in case you're interested in various Jest matches other than the default ones.

## Idiosyncrasies

### [Find elements](./tests/find-elements.test.js)

- If the implementation changes(e.g. the order of the components), Enzyme will fail, whilst RTL won't due to not accessing the components by their position.
- Enzyme doesn't expose various ways to find particular elements as opposed to what RTL offers.

???
- It's difficult to access the props.
- Some of the extended Jest matchers cannot be used(e.g. `toHaveAttribute` because the component isn't rendered directly to the DOM).

### Fire events

### Components wrapped inside HOC(s)

### Asynchronous events

### Hooks

### Extras

## Resources

- [David Boyne, Medium - My experience moving from Enzyme to react-testing-library](https://medium.com/@boyney123/my-experience-moving-from-enzyme-to-react-testing-library-5ac65d992ce)
- [@Black, StackOverflow - Difference between enzyme, ReactTestUtils and react-testing-library](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54152562/difference-between-enzyme-reacttestutils-and-react-testing-library)
- [LevelUpTuts, YouTube - What Is React Testing Library?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKOwJUM4_RM)
- [Kent C. Dodds, YouTube - Test Driven Development with react-testing-library](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCR3JAR7CHE)
- [Leigh Halliday, YouTube - Testing React](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8fumNHsC-3NaPNxh2bous6bBDWwJ4r1-)
